'\" t
.\" ** The above line should force tbl to be a preprocessor **
.\"
.\" Manual page for dtcltiny
.\" process with:
.\"   groff -man -Tlatin1 dtcltiny.1 | less
.\"or
.\"   groff -man -Tutf8 dtcltiny.1 | less
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008 Guido Scholz
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License as specified in the file COPYING that comes with the
.\" dtcltiny distribution.
.\"
.\" Thu Dec 30 17:10:00 CEST 2008  Guido Scholz <guido-scholz@gmx.net>
.\"
.TH DTCLTINY 1 2016-03-13 Linux "SRCP Clients"
.SH NAME
dtcltiny \- SRCP based digital model train controller.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dtcltiny
[
.I -options
] [
.I file
]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I dtcltiny
is a graphical Simple Railroad Command Protocol (SRCP) client to
comfortably control a digital model trains.  His look has been adopted
from
.I dtcl
(Digital Train control) by Stefan Preis.  This program is designed to be
used with a SRCP server as provided by the DDL project.
.PP
.I dtcltiny
can be used to access a local SRCP server, or to connect over a host
to host TCP/IP network.  For historical reasons there have been several
partly incompatible versions of SRCP.  This version of
.I dtcltiny
only supports SRCP version 0.8.4 and hence needs a suitable SRCP server
like
.I srcpd
(http://srcpd.sourceforge.net/). For basic usage of
.I dtcltiny
it may be sufficent to connect to servers providing older SRCP
standards ranging from 0.8.0 to 0.8.3.
.SS "Generic Messages"
.I dtcltiny
supports Generic Messages (GM) which were introduced to SRCP in version
0.8.4. This feature is used to transport CRCF (Common Railroad
Configuration Files) data enabling SRCP clients to exchange information
not part of the SRCP specification.
.I dtcltiny
acts as CRCF client and can communicate with CRCF clients like
.I spdrs60
to request route specific information.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
For now
.B dtcltiny
does not implement special command-line options, but supports 
generic options of the underlying Qt-library.
.TP
.BI \-geometry \ WxH+X+Y
Sets the size and location of the main window.  This may be specially
useful for displaying a full set of train controllers.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP 
.I ~/.dtcltinyrc
Personal dtcltiny defaults (see
.I Options Preferences
menu).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMING TO
This version of
.I dtcltiny
is conforming to SRCP 0.8.4.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
May be there are some bugs, worth to be smashed.  Please send bug reports
or suggestions to the
.I dctltiny
user mailinglist <dtcltiny-user@lists.sourceforge.net>.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
.BI dtcltiny
Display the main window with an empty controller set.  Pre-loading of a
user specific locomotive controller set file can be configured with the
preferences dialog.
.TP
.BI dtcltiny\ \-geometry\ 800x600+0+0
Display the man window in 800x600 pixel size and place it to the upper
left corner.
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
.B dtcltiny
was written by Markus Pfeiffer <mail@markus-pfeiffer.de>
and Guido Scholz <guido-scholz@gmx.net>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Guido Scholz.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR spdrs60 (1),
.BR srcpd (8)
